docs/docs/configuration.md, before:

# Configuration Reference

Archi deployments are configured via YAML files passed to the CLI with `--config`. Any fields not specified are populated from the base template at `src/cli/templates/base-config.yaml`.

> **Tip:** Start from one of the example configs in `examples/deployments/` and customize from there.

---

## Top-Level Fields

### `name`

**Type:** string (required)

Name of your deployment. Used for container naming and directory structure.

```yaml
name: my_deployment
```

---

## `global`

Global settings shared across all services.

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| `DATA_PATH` | string | `/root/data/` | Path for persisted data inside containers |
| `ACCOUNTS_PATH` | string | `/root/.accounts/` | Path for uploader/grader account data |
| `ACCEPTED_FILES` | list | See below | File extensions allowed for manual uploads |
| `LOGGING.input_output_filename` | string | `chain_input_output.log` | Pipeline I/O log filename |
| `verbosity` | int | `3` | Default logging level for services (0-4) |

Default accepted files: `.pdf`, `.md`, `.txt`, `.docx`, `.html`, `.htm`, `.json`, `.yaml`, `.yml`, `.py`, `.js`, `.ts`, `.jsx`, `.tsx`, `.java`, `.go`, `.rs`, `.c`, `.cpp`, `.h`, `.sh`

---

## `services`

Configuration for containerized services. Each service has its own subsection.

### `services.chat_app`

The main chat interface.

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| `agent_class` | string | `CMSCompOpsAgent` | Pipeline class to run |
| `agents_dir` | string | — | Path to agent markdown files |
| `default_provider` | string | `local` | Default LLM provider |
| `default_model` | string | `llama3.2` | Default model |
| `tools` | dict | `{}` | Agent-class-specific tool settings (for example `tools.monit.url`) |
| `trained_on` | string | — | Description shown in the chat UI |
| `hostname` | string | `localhost` | Public hostname for the chat interface |
| `port` | int | `7861` | Internal container port |
| `external_port` | int | `7861` | Host-mapped port |
| `host` | string | `0.0.0.0` | Network binding |
| `num_responses_until_feedback` | int | `3` | Responses before prompting for feedback |
| `auth.enabled` | bool | `false` | Enable authentication |

#### Provider Configuration

```yaml
services:
  chat_app:
    providers:
      local:
        enabled: true
        base_url: http://localhost:11434
        mode: ollama              # or openai_compat
        default_model: llama3.2
        models:
          - llama3.2
      gemini:
        enabled: true
```

### `services.postgres`

PostgreSQL database settings.

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| `host` | string | `postgres` | Database hostname |
| `port` | int | `5432` | Database port |
| `user` | string | `archi` | Database user |
| `database` | string | `archi-db` | Database name |

### `services.vectorstore`

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| `backend` | string | `postgres` | Vector store backend (only `postgres` supported) |

### `services.data_manager`

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| `port` | int | `7871` | Internal port |
| `external_port` | int | `7871` | Host-mapped port |
| `host` | string | `0.0.0.0` | Network binding |
| `enabled` | bool | `true` | Enable data manager service |

### `services.grafana`

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| `port` | int | `3000` | Grafana port |
| `external_port` | int | `3000` | Host-mapped port |

### `services.grader_app`

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| `port` | int | `7861` | Internal port |
| `external_port` | int | `7862` | Host-mapped port |
| `provider` | string | — | Provider for grading pipelines |
| `model` | string | — | Model for grading pipelines |
| `num_problems` | int | — | Number of problems (must match rubric files) |
| `local_rubric_dir` | string | — | Path to rubric files |
| `local_users_csv_dir` | string | — | Path to users CSV |

### Other Services

- **`services.piazza`**: Requires `network_id`, `agent_class`, `provider`, `model`
- **`services.mattermost`**: Requires `update_time`
- **`services.redmine_mailbox`**: Requires `url`, `project`, `redmine_update_time`, `mailbox_update_time`
- **`services.benchmarking`**: See [Benchmarking](benchmarking.md)

---

## `data_manager`

Controls data ingestion, vectorstore behaviour, and retrieval settings.

### Core Settings

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| `collection_name` | string | `default_collection` | Vector store collection name |
| `embedding_name` | string | `OpenAIEmbeddings` | Embedding backend |
| `chunk_size` | int | `1000` | Max characters per text chunk |
| `chunk_overlap` | int | `0` | Overlapping characters between chunks |
| `parallel_workers` | int | `32` | Parallel ingestion workers |
| `reset_collection` | bool | `true` | Wipe collection on startup |
| `distance_metric` | string | `cosine` | Similarity metric: `cosine`, `l2`, `ip` |

### Retrieval Settings

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| `retrievers.hybrid_retriever.num_documents_to_retrieve` | int | `5` | Top-k documents per query |
| `retrievers.hybrid_retriever.bm25_weight` | float | `0.6` | BM25 keyword score weight |
| `retrievers.hybrid_retriever.semantic_weight` | float | `0.4` | Semantic similarity weight |
| `stemming.enabled` | bool | `false` | Enable Porter Stemmer for improved matching |

> **Note:** `use_hybrid_search` is a dynamic runtime setting (managed via the configuration API), not a YAML config key.

### Sources

```yaml
data_manager:
  sources:
    links:
      input_lists:
        - miscellanea.list
      scraper:
        reset_data: true
        verify_urls: false
        enable_warnings: false
      selenium_scraper:
        enabled: false
    git:
      enabled: false
    sso:
      enabled: false
    jira:
      url: https://jira.example.com
      projects: []
      anonymize_data: true
      cutoff_date: null
    redmine:
      url: https://redmine.example.com
      project: null
      anonymize_data: true
```

The `visible` flag on any source (`sources.<name>.visible`) controls whether content appears in chat citations (default: `true`).

### Embedding Configuration

```yaml
data_manager:
  embedding_name: OpenAIEmbeddings
  embedding_class_map:
    OpenAIEmbeddings:
      class: OpenAIEmbeddings
      kwargs:
        model: text-embedding-3-small
      similarity_score_reference: 10
```

See [Models & Providers](models_providers.md#embedding-models) for all embedding options.

### Anonymizer

```yaml
data_manager:
  utils:
    anonymizer:
      nlp_model: en_core_web_sm
      excluded_words: []
      greeting_patterns: []
      signoff_patterns: []
      email_pattern: '[\w\.-]+@[\w\.-]+\.\w+'
      username_pattern: '\[~[^\]]+\]'
```

---

## Agent Configuration Model

Archi no longer uses a top-level `archi:` block in standard deployment YAML.

Agent behavior is defined by:

- `services.chat_app.agent_class`: which pipeline class runs (for example `CMSCompOpsAgent`)
- `services.chat_app.agents_dir`: where agent spec markdown files live
- agent specs (`*.md`): selected tool subset (`tools`) and system prompt body
- `services.chat_app.tools`: optional agent-class-specific tool settings

Example:

```yaml
services:
  chat_app:
    agent_class: CMSCompOpsAgent
    agents_dir: examples/agents
    tools:
      monit:
        url: https://monit-grafana.cern.ch
```

See [Agents & Tools](agents_tools.md) for agent spec format and tool selection.

---

## Complete Example

```yaml
name: my_deployment

global:
  DATA_PATH: "/root/data/"
  ACCEPTED_FILES: [".txt", ".pdf", ".md"]
  verbosity: 3

services:
  chat_app:
    agent_class: CMSCompOpsAgent
    agents_dir: examples/agents
    default_provider: local
    default_model: llama3.2
    trained_on: "Course documentation"
    hostname: "example.mit.edu"
    external_port: 7861
    providers:
      local:
        enabled: true
        base_url: http://localhost:11434
        mode: ollama
        models:
          - llama3.2
  postgres:
    port: 5432
    database: archi-db
  vectorstore:
    backend: postgres

data_manager:
  sources:
    links:
      input_lists:
        - examples/deployments/basic-gpu/miscellanea.list
      scraper:
        reset_data: true
        verify_urls: false
  embedding_name: OpenAIEmbeddings
  chunk_size: 1000
  chunk_overlap: 0
```

> **Tip:** For the full base template with all defaults, see `src/cli/templates/base-config.yaml` in the repository.

Commit message:

handle chat app timeout via config

docs/docs/configuration.md, after:

# Configuration Reference

Archi deployments are configured via YAML files passed to the CLI with `--config`. Any fields not specified are populated from the base template at `src/cli/templates/base-config.yaml`.

> **Tip:** Start from one of the example configs in `examples/deployments/` and customize from there.

---

## Top-Level Fields

### `name`

**Type:** string (required)

Name of your deployment. Used for container naming and directory structure.

```yaml
name: my_deployment
```

---

## `global`

Global settings shared across all services.

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| `DATA_PATH` | string | `/root/data/` | Path for persisted data inside containers |
| `ACCOUNTS_PATH` | string | `/root/.accounts/` | Path for uploader/grader account data |
| `ACCEPTED_FILES` | list | See below | File extensions allowed for manual uploads |
| `LOGGING.input_output_filename` | string | `chain_input_output.log` | Pipeline I/O log filename |
| `verbosity` | int | `3` | Default logging level for services (0-4) |

Default accepted files: `.pdf`, `.md`, `.txt`, `.docx`, `.html`, `.htm`, `.json`, `.yaml`, `.yml`, `.py`, `.js`, `.ts`, `.jsx`, `.tsx`, `.java`, `.go`, `.rs`, `.c`, `.cpp`, `.h`, `.sh`

---

## `services`

Configuration for containerized services. Each service has its own subsection.

### `services.chat_app`

The main chat interface.

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| `agent_class` | string | `CMSCompOpsAgent` | Pipeline class to run |
| `agents_dir` | string | — | Path to agent markdown files |
| `default_provider` | string | `local` | Default LLM provider |
| `default_model` | string | `llama3.2` | Default model |
| `client_timeout_seconds` | number | `1800` | Chat request/stream timeout in seconds (sent to frontend as ms) |
| `tools` | dict | `{}` | Agent-class-specific tool settings (for example `tools.monit.url`) |
| `trained_on` | string | — | Description shown in the chat UI |
| `hostname` | string | `localhost` | Public hostname for the chat interface |
| `port` | int | `7861` | Internal container port |
| `external_port` | int | `7861` | Host-mapped port |
| `host` | string | `0.0.0.0` | Network binding |
| `num_responses_until_feedback` | int | `3` | Responses before prompting for feedback |
| `auth.enabled` | bool | `false` | Enable authentication |

#### Provider Configuration

```yaml
services:
  chat_app:
    providers:
      local:
        enabled: true
        base_url: http://localhost:11434
        mode: ollama              # or openai_compat
        default_model: llama3.2
        models:
          - llama3.2
      gemini:
        enabled: true
```

### `services.postgres`

PostgreSQL database settings.

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| `host` | string | `postgres` | Database hostname |
| `port` | int | `5432` | Database port |
| `user` | string | `archi` | Database user |
| `database` | string | `archi-db` | Database name |

### `services.vectorstore`

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| `backend` | string | `postgres` | Vector store backend (only `postgres` supported) |

### `services.data_manager`

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| `port` | int | `7871` | Internal port |
| `external_port` | int | `7871` | Host-mapped port |
| `host` | string | `0.0.0.0` | Network binding |
| `enabled` | bool | `true` | Enable data manager service |

### `services.grafana`

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| `port` | int | `3000` | Grafana port |
| `external_port` | int | `3000` | Host-mapped port |

### `services.grader_app`

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| `port` | int | `7861` | Internal port |
| `external_port` | int | `7862` | Host-mapped port |
| `provider` | string | — | Provider for grading pipelines |
| `model` | string | — | Model for grading pipelines |
| `num_problems` | int | — | Number of problems (must match rubric files) |
| `local_rubric_dir` | string | — | Path to rubric files |
| `local_users_csv_dir` | string | — | Path to users CSV |

### Other Services

- **`services.piazza`**: Requires `network_id`, `agent_class`, `provider`, `model`
- **`services.mattermost`**: Requires `update_time`
- **`services.redmine_mailbox`**: Requires `url`, `project`, `redmine_update_time`, `mailbox_update_time`
- **`services.benchmarking`**: See [Benchmarking](benchmarking.md)

---

## `data_manager`

Controls data ingestion, vectorstore behaviour, and retrieval settings.

### Core Settings

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| `collection_name` | string | `default_collection` | Vector store collection name |
| `embedding_name` | string | `OpenAIEmbeddings` | Embedding backend |
| `chunk_size` | int | `1000` | Max characters per text chunk |
| `chunk_overlap` | int | `0` | Overlapping characters between chunks |
| `parallel_workers` | int | `32` | Parallel ingestion workers |
| `reset_collection` | bool | `true` | Wipe collection on startup |
| `distance_metric` | string | `cosine` | Similarity metric: `cosine`, `l2`, `ip` |

### Retrieval Settings

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| `retrievers.hybrid_retriever.num_documents_to_retrieve` | int | `5` | Top-k documents per query |
| `retrievers.hybrid_retriever.bm25_weight` | float | `0.6` | BM25 keyword score weight |
| `retrievers.hybrid_retriever.semantic_weight` | float | `0.4` | Semantic similarity weight |
| `stemming.enabled` | bool | `false` | Enable Porter Stemmer for improved matching |

> **Note:** `use_hybrid_search` is a dynamic runtime setting (managed via the configuration API), not a YAML config key.

### Sources

```yaml
data_manager:
  sources:
    links:
      input_lists:
        - miscellanea.list
      scraper:
        reset_data: true
        verify_urls: false
        enable_warnings: false
      selenium_scraper:
        enabled: false
    git:
      enabled: false
    sso:
      enabled: false
    jira:
      url: https://jira.example.com
      projects: []
      anonymize_data: true
      cutoff_date: null
    redmine:
      url: https://redmine.example.com
      project: null
      anonymize_data: true
```

The `visible` flag on any source (`sources.<name>.visible`) controls whether content appears in chat citations (default: `true`).

### Embedding Configuration

```yaml
data_manager:
  embedding_name: OpenAIEmbeddings
  embedding_class_map:
    OpenAIEmbeddings:
      class: OpenAIEmbeddings
      kwargs:
        model: text-embedding-3-small
      similarity_score_reference: 10
```

See [Models & Providers](models_providers.md#embedding-models) for all embedding options.

### Anonymizer

```yaml
data_manager:
  utils:
    anonymizer:
      nlp_model: en_core_web_sm
      excluded_words: []
      greeting_patterns: []
      signoff_patterns: []
      email_pattern: '[\w\.-]+@[\w\.-]+\.\w+'
      username_pattern: '\[~[^\]]+\]'
```

---

## Agent Configuration Model

Archi no longer uses a top-level `archi:` block in standard deployment YAML.

Agent behavior is defined by:

- `services.chat_app.agent_class`: which pipeline class runs (for example `CMSCompOpsAgent`)
- `services.chat_app.agents_dir`: where agent spec markdown files live
- agent specs (`*.md`): selected tool subset (`tools`) and system prompt body
- `services.chat_app.tools`: optional agent-class-specific tool settings

Example:

```yaml
services:
  chat_app:
    agent_class: CMSCompOpsAgent
    agents_dir: examples/agents
    tools:
      monit:
        url: https://monit-grafana.cern.ch
```

See [Agents & Tools](agents_tools.md) for agent spec format and tool selection.

---

## Complete Example

```yaml
name: my_deployment

global:
  DATA_PATH: "/root/data/"
  ACCEPTED_FILES: [".txt", ".pdf", ".md"]
  verbosity: 3

services:
  chat_app:
    agent_class: CMSCompOpsAgent
    agents_dir: examples/agents
    default_provider: local
    default_model: llama3.2
    trained_on: "Course documentation"
    hostname: "example.mit.edu"
    external_port: 7861
    providers:
      local:
        enabled: true
        base_url: http://localhost:11434
        mode: ollama
        models:
          - llama3.2
  postgres:
    port: 5432
    database: archi-db
  vectorstore:
    backend: postgres

data_manager:
  sources:
    links:
      input_lists:
        - examples/deployments/basic-gpu/miscellanea.list
      scraper:
        reset_data: true
        verify_urls: false
  embedding_name: OpenAIEmbeddings
  chunk_size: 1000
  chunk_overlap: 0
```

> **Tip:** For the full base template with all defaults, see `src/cli/templates/base-config.yaml` in the repository.
